[Music]
very good afternoon and thank you for
being a patient audience we've got three
industry experts who are going to talk
about risk culture but before I you know
post some questions to each one of them
yesterday I was with one of The
Regulators um at the Bombay Stock
Exchange and I asked a simple question
to the lady what is risk culture and she
said risk culture is like thin air in
the office it's invisible but it's so
critical and one person who can pollute
the environment can completely disrupt
the entire organization's attitude
Behavior like udai
mentioned I then happen to speak to
someone at sebbi and I again ask the
same
question what do you define risk culture
as let's not look at the jar or the
Frameworks or International
standards and he said in my view risk
culture is a chain and every employee is
supposed to be
responsible to ensure that the ownership
of risk is at the highest level so again
this boils down to the fact that risk is
everyone's responsibility it no longer
should sit in the boardroom it should no
longer sit at the cro level or the risk
management committee level but how do we
make make sure that risk permeates at
the shop floor the plant your branches
across the organization so with that in
mind uh venkatesh if I can start with
you you've been a veteran in the risk
management profession and having worked
for so many years seen transformational
shifts in how organizations look at risk
what has been the difference between
20089 to 201819 typically after the
financial crisis and then from 1819 till
today how has risk culture typically
evolved in
organizations so I must admit uh every
question that hsh is going to ask me is
going to be a black
swor so I do not know what he's going to
ask and I do not know what I'm going to
answer but I just hope something comes
out that makes sense to all of us
collectively so um I mean I mean quickly
uh I can say that for example our own
organizations risk um I mean we all have
a you already spoke about the risk
culture a little bit uh various words
are there it's depend it's the smell of
the place and there are so many other
terms to use uh and um ultimately it is
also about the behavior not only tone
from the top but also behavior from the
top Which shapes the risk culture so uh
my experience has been uh that say pre
2007 I would not specific Al put only
this uh but let me put it like this
organizations which have had very very
uh disastrous impacts of uh certain
external or internal events who have
eventually uh survived it have got a
much much stronger risk culture than um
others who have only heard about this so
what do I mean by that so for example
had Enron survived whatever they had
they went through in uh 202 2001
probably they would have been a very
very strong company today so like an
Enron kind of situation almost happened
to semons Limited in
20067 uh and we had a monitor for the
next 3 years in Germany the entire
managing board was sacked and so on and
so forth um but eventually we ended up
coming a much stronger as an
organization so the uh so the the key is
experiencing the effects of not having a
good culture and surviving it and
ultimately you uh perhaps you will never
go back to that stage which brought you
over there so I think that is that
become that that is what really is
shaping culture for others it is more of
a story of I've heard that uh there is
there is an accident so there a
difference between an actually hearing
about an accident and feeling the impact
of the accident being hospitalized and
then coming back um now that now having
said that not everybody needs to go
through this drastic measure in order to
have culture you can definitely learn
from others uh and one of the things
which I have been also trying to do not
only in my organization but also in the
community is make people feel what it
means for a 100 year year old company or
150 year old company to be shaken to its
roots so feel it so you may not have uh
actually experienced it but just imagine
tomorrow a company which was there is no
longer there and you were an employee of
that company how will you how will you
feel about it and that can then shape
the way in which they will look at uh
the topic of risk in future so I think
with those few words maybe H and and
just quickly on that point if you could
also tell me your uh probably
perspective on reaction versus response
because you're speaking about crisis
you're speaking about how organizations
who've gone through damage have bounced
back stronger because then you realize
the preparedness levels need to be high
but but then isn't that a reactive
approach where are we on preparedness of
response yeah that that is true and uh
fortunately so this is the time when
reaction was more Pro was more prevalent
than response I would say the concept of
risk management and proactive
identification of risks and mitigation
is a very very recent phenomenon maybe
last 10 years 15 years till then we
spoke about black SWS and then we said
okay once in a way it will happen now we
are seeing black SWS are happening
regularly um the it is I think there's a
very strong case for
proactive uh risk
management all those people who did not
succeed because the reaction did not
work now probably all the employees of
those companies when they are there in
other companies they would be very very
effective Risk Managers so um I history
always has something to teach history
always has something to teach and I also
feel the way you learn also makes a
difference now some of us learn learn by
reading some of us learn by listening
and some of us learn only from personal
experience so I think that's also true
for companies great I'm going to come
back to you on two Black Swan events uh
sandip at this point since he's spoken
about risk management Evolution if you
could highlight or how would one assess
corporate India's evolution of risk
management and what do you think is
really uh the Crux of risk management
maturity in India in today thanks AR
I think um you know if you look back uh
uh the history of GI industry and the
and its
Evolution um you know prior to 2000 you
know we largely had four public sector
entities and you had GIC which is a you
know National
reur and 20201 onwards you know the
privatization actually kicked in and you
know the licenses were given so today at
this point in time we have some total 32
OD insurance companies 28 plus 4 uh uh
so clearly the industry has moved the
needle so when we all joined the
industry size was about 10,000 crores
today is about 3 lakh
crores uh so you know at that point in
time when we were going to the clients
the the requirement was very very simple
okay they just wanted to ensure that
whatever an insurance company stands for
you please deliver that okay so if you
are going to give me an insurance policy
copy please ensure that you give it to
me in that particular time frame if you
stand for giving me claims when when it
happens please sure that you give me
adequate claim settle uh adequate claim
settlement happens and also within a
reasonable time frame so the expectation
was extremely uh simple and hygienic uh
you know requirements which were there
and in fact in that sense it also
reflected the mindset of people and the
need the basic needs were not really
Satisfied by the Earth while uh you know
setup so as things evolved you know
since
2010 onwards or maybe up to 2020 you
know that that is a decade where I would
say there there was a big shift in the
way in which the clients looked at the
insurance company and the insurance
industry when I say this uh you know
there was a lot of background to it
because up to 2008 or so uh you know our
entire insurance industry was governed
very strongly by the regulator as well
as there was a pricing methodology which
was being followed and as there was no
flexibility in terms of giving anything
different so every every product was in
a way commoditized every insurance
company had to give the same wordings
every insurance company had to give the
same price and hence the product
eventually became commoditized there was
no real differentiation up to
20089 since then uh in that 10 years uh
ensuing 20 2008 to 2018 markets were
opened up you know DET tariffing
happened pricing crashed at that point
in time and as the industry was not
matured at that point in time you know
we went uh to you know a very a level
where it was extremely difficult to even
survive so that is where um you know
clients also started to realize that
insurance is not only about driving the
cost down but it was also equally
important to uh understand uh what is
the risk on which they sitting at you
know Insurance not only about driving
the cost down but also expecting the
insurers really to contribute to them in
terms of their journey of risk
identification risk management and then
eventually taking a cover which is
suitable for their own specific
requirements and needs so that's how the
uh you know you risk I mean the the
expectation of an insurance company
started to evolve that Beyond Insurance
products how can you partner with us on
risk identification risk management and
then finally of course there is
transfer but for the last full sweet of
solutions that yeah just to finish the
last leg so the way in which I look at
it so 2020 onwards I mean last three or
four years very clearly the expectation
has gone to the next level what the
clients typically say is that you know
you know we are becoming very large you
know India is going through a very big
transition corporate India large
corporates are becoming more bigger
okay more and more um formalization of
the economy has started to happen Cong
small company becoming large large
becoming conglomerates and uh the
question really is that uh uh you know
will you be able to support my
aspirations okay will insurance industry
can really contribute so that finally
they can be they can really Drive their
uh you know growth Journeys and it is
not only about the capacities to
underrate but it is again proactive
identification as to in the next 3 years
5 years if this is a size I'm going to
become this is the areas which India is
going to open up what are the potential
risk uh which India is going to face and
eventually what I'm going to face and
can you help me not only identify that
but also give me a plan to really
mitigate it so I think the expectation
is really gone to the next level um in
terms of the expectation of the
insurance industry sure and what are the
top three risks that you are seeing in
India Inc right now I mean I know we've
released the report but something uh
more towards ICA Lombard where you are
partnering with clients and really
supporting them in Risk transfer so I
the way in which I mean one of the
biggest areas which clients are really
concerned about is cyber I mean clearly
media has been all over the place India
is now become the capital of cyber
attacks yeah every ins every client now
even even thees even the startup
Community you know we have a separate
team who basically addresses the
requirement startup Community the first
thing that they today asking is whether
can you give me a cyber cover so I think
they are paranoid and uh and I think
they should be and it is all about you
know whether on when are they going to
get attacked not about when I think the
investor Community has woken up as well
I mean lot of P funds and Angel
Investors have started to demand that
kind of governance and risk practices
from startups as well so again if you
look at it the way in which it is
evolving it is not only about giving
them a product it is not only
transferring the risk it will also you
need to also start getting into the risk
culture which sir you know spoke about
that finally it is only one click of a
button is required to actually open up
your systems sure so you know I think
Steve is here and he really drives the
you know be Steve from IC LOM he's our
ciso yeah and he keeps on driving uh you
know this simple fact about you know the
fishing attacks can you really uh avoid
that and there are lot of these males
which keep on coming and you know they
teach us that you know please don't
click on some of these uh random emails
will start coming in and it can just
open up the organization systems so
cyber clearly is really up there uh and
I think uh the partnership of insurance
company with the clients on building the
risk resilience on Cyber is going to be
very very important and critical going
forward second one is the business
Interruption so you know we spoke about
when we started the session that it is
not only about the risks which are there
in the country but uh risks which are
actually happening or events which are
happening across the globe can actually
impact the supply chains you know
pandemic actually showed that you know
or even if you look at the uh you know
the ash clouds which had got developed
some years back the European market just
couldn't Supply the engines and
machinery and the entire automobile
sector in India had got impacted I think
the business Interruption and the supply
supply chain risk is clearly one of the
top most items which is there in the
agenda of most corporates sure G let me
bring you in at this point he's spoken
about cyber and you know with the
increasing natcat events or the Cyber
situation uh with AI and blockchain and
Robotics uh how do you typically look at
all these scenarios when you're doing
your underwriting uh because clearly
we're not astrologers but at the same
time we need to make sure that uh we get
a good night's sleep so what really uh
is your philosophy to bringing these
scenarios and unknown unknown events
into your underwriting process so I
think it's a great question H clearly I
think cyber risk and the climatic
changes along with the technology
infrastructure are becoming key elements
for any company uh today uh some time
back we always used to think really
about that climatic risk or the losses
which really happen is a once in a
lifetime event uh but we we have seen
started seeing them happening I think
quarter on not quarter not only even
year on year uh for for instance when we
talked about chenai floods the last time
it had happened in 2015 and it really
happened just last year again U Kerala
has always been going through one kind
of a catastrophe or the other whether
it's epidemics or pandemics or the
recent V which had really happened about
with the infrastructure development
which is really happening around and
with the climatic changes which is
really happening around it is not only
the frequency of the events which is
becoming big bigger and bigger but it is
a severity of the event also which is
really becoming bigger and bigger it's
not that climatic changes never used to
really exist in the past but giving you
an example more and more Hydro par
development really happening in the
Himalayan belt more and more
infrastructure built development really
in terms of Roads Bridges canals
happening on the northeast side of the
country uh along with the climatic
changes it it is really compelling
people to come out with the bigger much
more bigger losses which we really see
around uh the Tista power which had
really happened it was a close to a
15,000 crores event nobody on I think
when we do our scenario calculations at
our end uh honestly if you ask me had we
written that particular claim in we
would not have assumed a 15,000 crores
event really happening around for us it
would have been a few thousand crores
really event happening so it is
compelling more and more for us to also
look at beyond the visible risk beyond
the experiences of the past because
truly what we believe now is something
some experience of the past is really
not going to we can rely on for the
events which really happen in in in the
future and the same is true for cyber
risk uh we believe there are only three
kind of companies which exist on Cyber
the companies which have already been
attacked the second is probably who have
been attacked but they're not aware
about it there is a virus which is
already sitting in the servers third is
the ones which are going which are going
to potentially be attacked there cannot
be any other company so we don't
personally believe there would be any
company which can't really be really
attacked we I think best of the software
companies who have been developing
softwares related to cybers for other
companies have also themselves got
attracted that's that's the scenario of
really cyber attacks really happening
around but I think the key change which
I also want to really talk about is the
shift which has to do and we talked
about here uh the technology risk right
uh the technology risk becoming bigger
and bigger and I would just like to
share the trends which is happening
which would probably allow you to take
understand the impact uh which either
the Cyber is happening or the climatic
change is happening or the technology
changes are really big and you have to
share the trends which have really been
brought out in the technology if you
look at uh India I think it's a $250
billion technology uh uh sector uh it's
going to become 350 uh billion dollar
almost growing at a cagr of 15% if you
look at 1995 or late 199 or early
2000 when we used to talk about
technology it used to be and sectors of
technology used to be more to do with
kpos bpos basic technology Works should
used to really happen in terms of uh
maintaining softwares maintaining
applications or maintaining or creating
those basic softwares for for the
businesses the next 10 years which is
the next decade it moved from kpos bpos
to more to consultancies it it created
more and more software which are more
integrated with the businesses so softw
which allowed you to take business
decisions which probably allowed you to
have storage around the business and
take uh probably some of uh so it what
more and more integrate with your
business uh uh in whether it was
manufacturing whether it for technology
U whether it's hospitality so most of
the softwares got created for the
businesses the third phase which which
we now call it as is where applications
are created for not only for consultancy
it's but more and more business
transformation is really happening
around so technology is really involving
around strategies of the businesses
itself which are really getting created
most of the Strategic initiatives which
a business houses creates is lying on
the platform of the technology
infrastructure a lot of cyber changes
really which is really bringing out it
is happening on probably the technology
platform a lot of AI and ml related
initiatives which is really happening
around is happening on that technology
so imagine the first decade which was
basic for to the second decade which is
more to do with uh business trans uh
business related projects to the third
one which is related to business
transformation right so the now if there
is a technology incident which has to
happen or impact of cyber which has to
happen it doesn't only impact your
business it impacts your future revenues
it impacts your brand it impacts the
huge exposures which you already Capt in
fact I was just coming to that point
because uh with Rising deep fakes and
even uh fake news or misinformation that
we seeing specifically induced by cyber
events is there something that IA
Lombard is doing or do you have a
product around it uh maybe you want to
talk about that so uh I think as the
risk get evolved uh the insurance
industry is always curating products uh
which takes care of the specific needs
of the customers uh a lot of these risks
which we anticipate of course they are
products which really exist and get
curated very specific to these
particular risk which which are there
cyber is of course one particular risk
uh I would have to really share with you
today there are embedded products which
are really be given in terms of the
technology as well as cyber because
these are two common threats which is
really really emerging out uh defects
are becoming increasingly more and more
particular I think uh I have seen
technology getting used in frauds yeah I
think today you get phone calls which is
more robot calls
where people are saying you have not
paid for electricity bills or or your
bank accounts are going to get blocked
and it's not an individual which is
really responding it's it's a deep fake
it's an AI Le calls which are really
really happening so I think
technological changes are really
happening any everywhere it is important
for us that we are ready to cover those
kind of exposures at an insurance
industry um and I think it is equally
important when we talk about skill sets
the talent uh there is a significant
shift of of learning those particular
risk which is even present on the
insurance companies to understand that
risk so that they can create more and
more better products at their end sure
so I think cyber sits basically in every
function now and largely it's about also
preparing your uh employees you know
cyber literacy as we call it to make
sure that they're not clicking on the
wrong mail or uh and Reporting those
incidents back into the risk function uh
venkadesh quickly coming to you uh to
summarize any two blacksan events that
you want to leave with our amazing
audience some unknown Unown unknown
event that you can think of because you
very good with crystal ball
gazing absolutely
not no but uh you know the point that he
was making about technology it I
suddenly it suddenly reminded me of the
Terminator series okay right so it is
like now a fight between two
technologies the good technology versus
a bad technology and now we have to see
who eventually wins yeah rather than
good human being versus bad human being
so I'm probably I've already given you
this is possibly the now I it's no
longer a Blackstone because I've spoken
about it right but I mean once you have
spoken about it it's no longer a
Blackstone uh yesterday for I think
yesterday there was a also in the same
discussion there was a discussion on
whether climate risk is a Black Swan or
and someone said it is moving to be
become a gray I know but in reality
according to me it is neither it is a
reality yeah it's a risk it's a current
risk it is not a risk it's happened so
once it has happened it can no longer be
a risk right so uh so we are already
swimming in black swans now the only
question is the very nature of black
swor being the fact that you don't know
what is going to happen next which is a
very low likely event which is going to
eventually hit us we do not know right I
would not Hazard a guess and therefore
because I'm i' I've tried doing this lot
of scenario analysis over the past years
one the steel companies that I was
talking to has said that aliens entering
my plant is a black SW yeah and that
could be 10 years from now but they're
saying we need to all start looking at
even such unknown unknown situations
yeah and people used to people would
generally laugh off at such things in
the past I had a similar I had a me one
of the business continuity planning
exercise we started way back in 2003 so
one of the questions we were discussing
is what will happen if the TV tower
falls on our head because we were very
close to the TV tower our office was
over there and of course there was a lot
of sniger
around and believe you me five years
later we had
that the attacks terrorist attacks which
fortunately stopped about 10 km from my
office right so now maybe a TV tower did
not come on your head but something
equivalent or something worse was very
close from your office and now believe
now what I find is people have stopped
becoming skeptical
about like you know like the same alien
example had you said it in the past
everybody would have laughed now we'll
say bottom L you know this communication
devices attacks could have been a Black
Swan I mean no longer Black Swan now you
can expect anything video is shocking I
mean communication pagers and everyday
used also can be used as Weapons you
know tomorrow yeah unheard of correct
great so I I just want to make this
point finally that um bottom line is
blacks cannot be avoided it will keep
coming uh the only mitigation measure is
to have very strong resilient
organization that means irrespective of
what happens it's something like uh if
your body has got a very good immunity
level then even if covid comes and hits
you it'll hit you you'll get covid but
it'll go away but on a weak body you
sure that you will go back go back to
your heavenly so make sure that you
make your organization very resilient so
that irrespec of what happens you're
able toand it sandip any concluding
remarks 30 seconds
no I think um we all have you know big
responsibility honestly um to ensure
that U whatever opportunities are being
presented uh by the ecosystem external
environment as well as the domestic
environment you know uh it's extremely
important for our future Generations
that we are you know able to realize all
of that and ensure that we as a country
you know really rise up to that
potential and I think the inherent
aspect is really to ensure that we are
resilient as a as a country as a entity
as an individual and everything then
starts with identifying the risk and
then the mitigation of it okay thank you
godov any concluding I I would just like
to say that a lot of regulations are
happening around what we call it as kyc
know your customer right and every
company is responsible for that I think
equally important for every company is
KYR which is know your risk so every
company should know what are the
relative risk which are associated for
them and then only they would be able to
probably take decisions either to avoid
or probably transfer them super thank
you everyone thanks for being a patient
audience and thank you panelists
[Music]